Good morning.
It's a pleasure to start the
OS Foundation track this year with
a talk entitled Beyond Syslog:
The New Log Subsystem.
We have a couple of interesting
things planned for logging,
although they may look rather small.
They're things that we'd like to
be able to leverage in the future.
Unfortunately,
I have a confession to make.
If you wanted to go ahead and
use the technology I'm presenting
today to make a new dashboard
widget to win the competition,
the APIs that we have to show you
today aren't actually on the CD,
but will be coming sometime
before Tiger actually ships.
So my name is Nicolai Krakoviak,
as I've been introduced,
BSD Technology Group.
And first I'd like to start
with a background on syslog,
what it is, what it does,
what it does well,
and what it does not so well.
And then also do a little
bit on the motivations on why
we're actually planning to do
a new logging infrastructure,
again from some of syslog's
sort of deficiencies.
There's a little bit on system
administration beyond just logging,
plans that Apple has for the future,
for different things that Unix
administrators have been asking for.
And by the end of the talk,
you'll be able to have a
little familiarity with the
API that we're planning,
how to write log messages,
how to actually search
through the log messages,
and best practices for
when and what to log.
So what is syslog?
Well, in a world without syslog,
you just open up a file and
start printing records to it.
But what the syslog provides
you is a system-based facility
for being able to do all of your
logging through a central point.
This allows a lot of configurability
and allows for messages not to be
scattered all over your system,
so you don't have each application
writing individual log files to
various separate directories.
So by having the centralized facility,
we can then gain other
functionality in addition to printf.
Things like being able
to tag priority messages.
So a message like "my printer is
on fire" is very different from "I
just opened up a TCP connection."
And to be able to differentiate
between those is very useful.
You can also do simple log filtering.
Based on these priorities,
you can specify separate log
files that get the messages.
Things like system.log and varlog
gets the majority of the data,
but you can also do things like
authorization information with a
slightly more secure file permissions,
or things like logging mail
messages or FTP connections also
go to their own separate files.
For extreme cases,
you can also write things
directly to dev console.
Again, like "my printer is on fire."
That might be a very important
thing to keep in mind.
So administrator can configure it
so it goes directly to a console as
opposed to just a file so users are
more likely to see it immediately.
Syslog also provides a basic
capability for remote logging.
This unfortunately was designed back
in the heyday before denial of service
attacks and our fancy encryption.
So it's not necessarily the most secure.
So it's not enabled by default,
but we're looking into
possibly fixing that.
So there are a number of
things that Syslog got right.
A centralized logging facility to be
able to have a centralized mechanism
for dealing with log messages.
Being able to specify
log levels for messages,
everything from debug through emergency.
It provides a lightweight API,
so it's a very low barrier
for entry for adoption.
And you don't want logging to
be necessarily a difficult thing
for your users to have to do.
It's also very configurable.
Being able to filter on
its priority and level.
And also the ability to log
to those remote machines.
But there are a few things that
we'd like to address with Syslog.
It has no internationalization support.
You can only log messages
with a subset of ASCII.
This isn't very good for -- because
a number of languages are very
difficult to represent in just ASCII.
The messages are also
a little too simple.
By only providing the timestamp
and priority and then a message,
there are a lot more things about
a log message that you can insert
that might be useful for a person who
wants to look at those log messages.
While you can't add them just for
the log message string itself,
then it exhibits another
problem with Syslog.
It's got an unstructured format,
so it's difficult to parse,
and it's also difficult to search.
You just have to do things like using
grep and fancy sort of expressions
to be able to get what you want.
So our goals include adding a
structured log format to make
searching much faster and easier,
and in particular for a
programmatic perspective,
to be able to have rich data to be
able to attach to these log messages
as a separate field so you can log
things that won't necessarily just
appear through the log interface.
Again, a lightweight API.
We don't want to make it too complicated
for you to actually log your messages.
And of course, backwards compatibility.
If your program is written
today to use syslog,
it should continue to
work into the future.
Another thing,
integrated log file maintenance.
Currently, log files are rotated by some
external application usually done
through a cron-like mechanism.
But cron really doesn't know a
whole lot about log messages.
So it'd be really nice to be able to
move some of that functionality inward.
And then extensible input
and output facilities.
Be able to stay control whether
or not you get log messages from
different available resources or
being able to specify some outputs.
And I'll give some
examples of that later.
For log file maintenance,
I think it would be really
nice to be able to have
configurable log file expiration.
So a system administrator can say,
keep all messages higher than warning.
Those are going to be messages that
I want to archive well into the future.
But I might only want to keep
the last 200 info messages.
And those can be just as
a rotating sort of buffer.
You might want to say,
don't keep debug messages
from an app that continually
spews out into the system.
log because they're just cluttering
up your logs and you don't
find that information valuable.
We're also thinking of things like,
you know,
don't spin up the disk so you can
save battery life as opposed to having
to write these log file messages.
And then also I'd like to add like
filtering on compound expressions.
So all of these sort
of rules can be have,
you know, complicated things like,
you know,
John that has a level greater than
notice you might want to do something
special with or all of my log levels
yesterday that were of a warning level.
Back to that input/output
thing I mentioned.
The next generation syslog, ASL,
will have a syslogd module so it can
handle input from all of the standard
interfaces that syslog expects them from,
like devlog and such.
Also, from UDP if you so wish to
enable that because you're
dependent on that functionality.
And then for writing it'll have
full syslog comp support so you
can have messages still continue
to go to their old locations,
although it's not the preferred interface
for some of the things like searching.
The local store, as you heard yesterday,
we have SQLite in Tiger,
and it'll give you the facility to
be able to do a little bit richer
searching on your log messages,
and also go through a
programmatic interface.
So your individual app can display a
short history of your possible debug
output without having to send the user
to a separate location to find that data.
We also have a couple of ideas
for possible future extensions.
As we mentioned,
the remote logging is not secure,
so maybe come up with a way of being
able to remedy that sort of problem.
Be able to do logging
from SNMP information,
to be able to integrate that
into the logging infrastructure.
Maybe you want to advertise some of
your syslog information on your blog.
You can do things like with RSS.
Once the information is in a
separate modular sort of interface,
you can do all sorts of things.
Maybe message in the bedroom can
message the machine in the den,
"My disk is full.
I need help."
The individual log records themselves
have a couple of components that
are automatically filled in for you.
We're going to be trying to capture
the user information both as a
username string and as a UID if
you use separate record interfaces,
because those might not
necessarily match all the time.
Similarly, group information.
You might want to know our
query across a group of which
applications are doing logging.
Timestamp for when of course
the log message is received.
Machine name,
mostly for now for future extensibility
for being able to support remote logging.
And then the application name itself,
which is derived simply from RGB0,
so if you wish to overload
that you can change it.
And then of course things that you
have to specifically call from the API.
The log level itself determines a
little bit how it gets filtered.
The message itself.
And then we're also providing an
ancillary data field so you can go ahead
and attach a string that would not show
up necessarily in the central log message
so it's searchable as a separate field.
When is it a good idea
to log information?
Well, really, all the time.
Anytime you do anything sort of useful,
like a system service,
like if you start listening on a
socket or start advertising a service,
if you disable a service,
parsing configuration files,
creating new files.
And some of the reasons this is useful
is if things start to break down,
then you can provide the
error messages saying,
you know, this file was corrupted
and I can't deal with it.
Some people have had applications
just go ahead and do a couple bounces
in the dock and then not do anything.
And that's really not
a very good interface.
And to be able to provide some
sort of mechanism for the user to
be able to figure out what exactly
went wrong and maybe possibly
correct it would be very useful.
So you can also use it for diagnostic
information for various things,
not just from application,
like hard application errors,
but things where the system
is in a consistent situation.
state where your application can
deal with a particular problem,
but it might not be ideal,
and the system can provide log messages
to be able to give information for the
user to be able to tune their system.
Again, providing a simple audit trail
to be able to figure out what the
application is actually doing.
One of the nice things about
Mac OS X is you get to hide a lot of
that complexity from the lower layers
up through a nice user interface,
but it's also nice to be able to
keep track of that information so
if a person does need to use it,
it is available.
For ASO,
we're planning on a log level policy very
similar to what syslog currently uses.
It's extensible in the manner for these
are going to be arbitrary strings that
you can use to set these log messages.
But for right now, we want to be able to,
as we migrate from syslog,
be able to provide direct
syslog compatibility.
At the top level,
it's an emergency log level,
typically not for most
application developers.
It's more for things
like the kernel to say,
"The system is actually
completely stopped.
I can't do anything more." It's
a wonder this log message will
actually get written at all.
It's to the point where you're
archiving the state of the world
for future generations to come
back and determine what happened.
Alerts are for things that the user
can handle and should immediately.
Things like disk full or maybe
my network disconnected and I'm
absolutely dependent on that network.
And I'm not sure if I'm
going to be able to do that.
I'm not sure if I'm going
to be able to do that.
I'm not sure if I'm going maybe
even but not quite the same as
say like a hard device error,
like I had a problem reading
from this hard drive.
Again,
like these are some of the kernel level
facilities and things like that that
are higher level than some applications.
Application things start right
around error where it's errors,
you know, a hard fatal error where you
were expecting something and
that's not true anymore and
you can't do anything but exit.
This will provide at least a mechanism
for you to provide the user with
information of why you have to quit.
Warnings, again, non-fatal errors,
things that the system or that your
application may not necessarily
have a problem dealing with,
but that shouldn't be that way.
And this allows the users,
like if a configuration file
is consistently missing,
it has to be regenerated or something.
Notices are for things
that aren't errors,
but you may still want
to inform the user,
like I'm starting a particular service,
I've turned SSH on,
I'm allowing remote printing.
Info allows you to log
informational messages such as,
"This user logged in from a remote
connection," or "There's mail
waiting for you," or any number
of different things that could be
useful for the user to know about.
And then debug provides, again,
a lower level so you can do
things like lightweight tracing.
You know,
syslog isn't a profiling utility,
so it shouldn't be used as such.
But to be able to provide the
user like a set of clear things
of how it got to where it did,
and then as you as
application developers,
maybe you can do things like
log analysis to figure out
what necessarily went wrong.
There's a command line interface.
Currently it's the same as what we
currently have for syslog compatibility,
a command called logger.
So logger by itself with a string
will log just that string at
some default level priority.
You can also do things slightly more
sophisticated like specify the actual
app name that gets logged and then
the priority from the command line.
So this would be just starting
back up at log level notice with
the application name backup.sh.
We're also planning a query interface
from the command line that'll sort
of obsolete using grep and that'll
provide a little bit more functionality.
Currently we haven't decided if
this command is going to live within
logger or as a separate utility.
But the interface will be something like
you can specify logger-q for a query.
And then you can do globs
on the particular thing.
So by default it would
glob the message itself.
So this would get both starting
back up and started testing.
Or you could say ask for things like
give me all log messages from backup.sh
with a priority level of notice.
The API, again, much like syslog,
is rather straightforward.
All the headers that you need are just
going to be contained within ASL.h.
There's very few basic data
structures that you need.
One of them is opaque struct, ASL_REF.
It's returned by ASL_OPEN.
If it's null, you have an error,
and you really can't log the
fact that you have an error.
ASL_LOG then calls with a ref with a
tag that specifies the actual priority,
and then takes a printf-style string
that specifies the log message itself.
And then it's always nice to be
able to close your references
if you don't need them anymore.
But I also mentioned that you
can specify ancillary data.
So using the ASL set command,
you can do things like
specifying the key data.
You can add, say,
an additional arbitrary string like, say,
hostname to the log message.
And then as you call ASL log,
then that extra information is going
to be logged with the next log message,
and then that field is cleared.
So that if I called ASL log again,
you would not have the hostname be set.
How do we search?
In addition to the ASL ref,
we also need another opaque
struct called ASL response.
Again,
opening the log reference is the same.
And then you call ASL set,
and then a particular key
that you wish to search for,
and then what that key should match as.
So ASL level debug for the ASL key level
will return all messages that match the
level debug throughout your log archive.
Then you call ASL search
on that reference,
and that returns an ASL response.
Now with an ASL response,
you can iterate over
calling ASL response next,
and then to get the individual
fields from the log message,
you can say ASL response
get on that response.
So in this case,
you'll be retrieving the sender, the PID,
and the message,
and then printing off them in a format
similar to an old style syslog message.
And then ASL response free cleanup
references along with ASL close.
So, in summary,
we have a consolidated programming
interface for accessing log information,
something that really quite
hasn't been done before.
Unified log information store, again,
being able to query the single
SQLite database as the backend,
but also being able to specify
other locations that the
messages could possibly go.
The modular interface for
receiving and storing messages.
The API isn't planned for Tiger,
but we're looking at things in the
future for opening up things so you
can write your own modules for being
able to deal with these messages,
both input and output.
And it's just in general a good debugging
tool for users to be able to find out
what went wrong with their system and
if they could do anything about it.
This time I'd like to bring up
Jordan Hubbard for Beyond Syslog.
Things that in system
administration that go beyond the
scope of just looking at logs.
Thanks.
Am I on?
Okay.
So my portion of the talk
might be titled Beyond,
Beyond Syslog,
because we realized in this session
that we were going to have a lot of
system administrators in the audience,
and we figured this would be a
good opportunity to talk about
some stuff that we may not
actually be able to have in Tiger,
but are all works in progress.
We're certainly going to try and get
some or all of them done for Tiger,
but no promises.
But this is sort of the direction
we're going in and the types of
problems we're trying to solve.
So, one thing we've noticed
that's interesting about
Apple's evolving user base,
if I can put it that way,
is we're getting a lot more Unix people.
And they tend to be
system administrators,
they tend to deploy in IT environments,
they're deploying XSERs,
which is obviously a
new product for Apple,
and somewhat out of the boundaries
of the traditional desktop market.
So, they're bringing to us a lot
of interesting new problems,
shall I say.
that I'll cover here.
One thing, actually I'll say the number
one thing they asked for is
better package management.
Yeah, so... Unfortunately,
package management is actually hard.
It's one of those really,
it's not very deep,
but it's a very wide problem space.
And dealing with dependency tracking,
dealing with undo, dealing with arbitrary
scripts that might run,
sort of post-installation scripts
where you have some really strange
piece of software that has to
go off and perturb the system,
maybe add users.
Perhaps go configure
something in the I/O registry.
You never really know what an arbitrary
package is going to try to do.
So,
to get it to do that in a way which is
flexible and gives you some prayer of
security is not an easy problem to solve.
So, as I said, one of the, well,
these are some of the issues that we
have with today's package management.
And one is, by which I mean the .pkg,
.mpkg files that the installer eats.
And number one gripe,
I can't install what I've installed.
Or I can't back out.
So if I've installed a software update,
which for some unforeseen reason
doesn't leave my system in
the best condition afterwards,
I'd like to be able to go back in time.
There's no dependency
tracking across packages.
So if you have several packages
sitting in a directory together,
and one depends on the other,
there's really no notion for that at all.
The only thing that Apple provides
today is something called the M package,
which is basically just an agglomeration
of a package and all of its dependencies.
And if you have two M packages which
contain the same subcomponents,
they'll both stupidly install the same
subcomponents over and over again.
Plus, of course,
you have the overhead of downloading
those same bits several times.
We have library receipts and the
BOM or build of materials files
as pretty much the only installed
software database that you get.
And obviously this is insufficient.
It doesn't let you do queries,
it doesn't let you at a glance find
out what's installed on your system,
when it was installed,
and other useful things.
There's no file or
package conflict checking,
so if two packages claim the same file,
that's just fine,
which of course it's not.
And upgrade support is really
pretty weak with the current system.
It basically just checks that you're,
I think you're monotomically
increasing inversion numbers and
then splats the new files into place.
There is no command line interface that
I really know of for installing packages.
[Transcript missing]
So, for the future, we're not sure what
the future holds here.
We're continuing to back Darwin Ports
just as a pretty good solution,
but we're actually looking at
cooperating with some of the
Linux distributions which have also
started to run into the same problem.
Some of whom are saying SRPMs are not
really the right way to build software,
it was a good solution for its time,
but we want something similar
to the FreeBSD Ports collection.
In the sense that we want a
massive tree of building recipes.
It's important to note,
end users may consume packages,
but those packages have
to come from somewhere.
And so, creating the infrastructure and
environment for building these
packages and maintaining that is at
least as important as coming up with
a good package management system.
And so,
we're looking at some interesting ways
of doing maybe an end-to-end solution
where you start with the end user,
you start with an XML recipe
which describes how to build it,
and then as it goes along the
food chain and gets built into
some sort of destination route,
and then it's finally packaged up,
that same XML file simply has
more properties added to it which
describe the package metadata,
and then that's bundled in as
part of the package itself.
So, you never actually lose
the original build recipe.
So, some other issues.
System configuration is still difficult.
It's something that involves lots
and lots of different configuration
files scattered around the system.
You're never even sure at any given
time what daemons are configured or will
launch in response to some stimulus.
And then of course once you know
which daemons are out there,
you have to learn their
configuration formats.
And it seems like every single daemon
in the system has invented its own.
Apache's got httpd.conf,
Samba has smb.conf.
You name a daemon,
I'll name you a unique configuration
format which applies to that
daemon and that daemon only.
Different services also
have different semantics.
So in some cases you can edit the
configuration file and then you
need to go tell the daemon that
its configuration file changed
by sending it a special signal.
In other cases there's a management
command like Apache CTL which
you need to run to restart it
in some sort of civilized fashion.
In most cases there's nothing.
You go and you find
the daemon in question,
you shoot it down and you restart it
and you hope it restarts and didn't
leave any state files lying around.
Which annoy it the
second time it comes up.
Basically a reboot is the only assured
method for restarting it properly.
Which is by the way one of
the reasons why some of the
software updates reboot you.
It isn't just because
the kernel has changed,
it's because it's altered some service
and the only way to get the new service
running is to reboot your system.
That blows.
So, there's also no notion of a
configuration parameter space that
they can share or rendezvous in.
So, in some cases,
a number of daemons would
like to share a common knob.
It's a knob that controls
some global resource,
and they should all respect it.
Or a global knob that says,
"No daemons should run at all right now.
Please, I'm doing a backup." Again,
so there's no notion of that.
The closest thing we have to a
shared configuration space is
the sysctl table in the kernel.
And obviously, that's pretty low level
and only really--.
It allows you to configure kernel knobs.
It doesn't allow you to configure
things up in user space,
nor should it.
And the whole remote management
issue is basically nonexistent
other than SSH-ing in and doing,
if it has a command line interface,
doing it that way.
So we've been looking at
this problem very hard,
and one notion that we came up with,
which we've been prototyping
and playing with,
is the notion of a configuration API.
And that's good for a
lot of different reasons.
And the chief reason I really like it is
it finally gives you a path to go down if
you want to create a new service and say,
"I don't want to invent my
own configuration file format.
There are quite enough, thank you." So,
but I don't have any--there's nothing
in libc or any of the standard Unix
APIs that allows you to do that.
And, okay, if you use core foundation,
you can use CFPreferences,
which is--which is a good start for this.
It definitely eliminated a lot of
dot files in your home directory.
But if you're not using CF,
if you're sort of a Unix demon,
then that doesn't really do you
any good unless you want to drag
all of CF in with--with the--with
the--your set of libraries.
So, we're looking at a fairly
low level service--sorry,
a fairly low level service which
lets you set and get properties,
query, walk the tree,
something similar to an SNMP MIB,
but a little bit with
more structured data.
And so you have a
configuration in a space,
you have APIs for getting
and setting this stuff,
and you have a persistent data store,
probably an SQLite database
is our first choice right now.
So, you have tables and rows and you can
also bring up the SQLite tool to browse
it if you want to do it that way.
But we're not married to that right now,
it's just one potential data store.
And the most important aspect of
this is its application agnostic.
Now you can write a Cocoa browser
which lets you browse these
things and tweak stuff.
You can have services just
programmatically go in and
setting and get values.
You'll have a command line tool which for
any demon which conforms to this--this
new API will have its knobs registered.
And then you can have a command
line tool which for any demon which
conforms to this--this new API will
have its knobs registered with so you
don't have to think of which specific
command goes with a specific demon.
And obviously if you also want
to have a web front end to it for
remote management or whatever,
you could do that.
Or you could write a proxy demon which
authenticates to a remote client,
maybe a Cocoa application
again or whatever,
and lets you do this remotely.
So, some of the issues that are going
to make this a difficult problem
is we have a number of existing
configuration data stores.
There's the SC Dynamics store
stuff that ConfigD uses.
There's surprisingly NetInfo,
which still stores
certain system parameters,
so we need to merge those.
And you need backwards compatibility.
One of the cardinal sins in the Unix
market is to come up there with a
bold new mechanism that completely
changes all the rules and say,
"But it's really better.
You really want it because
it's better." And they say,
"I don't care.
I can write Apache configuration
files in my sleep,
and I want to keep doing that.
Thank you very much." Or,
"I artist a set of common configuration
files across my Linux machines,
my Mac OS X boxes." "My FreeBSD boxes,
and I want that scheme
to continue to work." So,
we are looking at the notion of
configuration file parsing plug-ins
that map from one space to the other,
which is not easy to do because
there's an imperfect match for a
lot of these configuration files.
And you, of course,
have the issue of what happens when
you update one or not the other.
Do you try and back propagate
the change if you make it to
the centralized data store,
but don't make it to the flat ASCII file?
That it came from?
Or do you just do it one way?
Do you essentially do
it as a migration tool?
So, there's a lot of interesting
trade-offs there,
and we're looking at that very closely.
So, and you need to come up with a fairly
high level API for this so that you
can do something similar to PLIS where
you have dictionaries and arrays and
sort of arbitrarily complex data types
so that people don't just use it as a
binary blob data store and still have
to pick the data apart themselves.
But obviously you don't know the full
range of configuration data that people
are going to want to store so you
need to pick a very flexible format.
The P-list format actually
isn't a bad one because it
is quite flexible that way.
And of course you need things
like transaction rollback.
If I make a whole bunch of configuration
changes and then it blew the system up,
it would be,
or somebody did it at 3 o'clock
in the morning because you
have five or six administrators
all sharing the same duties,
then I'd like to be
able to come in and say,
you know, at 6 a.m.
and say, "Burt messed up the system."
You probably wouldn't use that word,
but anyway.
And you want to be able to roll it back.
So that's, and it's important.
Or you can see the transaction
history to see who it was whose
fingerprints are all over this mess.
[Transcript missing]
So, some other design goals,
and this doesn't just apply to
the problem space I mentioned,
but overall,
anything doable via the UI should
be doable on the command line.
That's one of the number one
bricks to the head we've taken
over the last year or so.
Now, don't clap yet,
because I didn't promise this.
I said this is a design goal,
and this is something we
are getting at this point.
Every time I go out to Hollywood or
somebody who uses a lot of machines,
this is like one of the number
one things they hit me with.
So we do understand this
is a really important goal.
Some of the stuff that Apple has
done is very UI-centric,
like software update.
And it took a little while
to make it dual mode.
So in some cases you have to go back
and sort of do retroactive design.
But going forward,
we're really clear on the fact
that you need to design that,
that is a design goal from the beginning.
Another complaint we get is the UI did
something and I have no idea what.
You know, I clicked on something and some
file was modified or some data
store had an update made to it.
Can you tell me what that was?
I might also want to be able to
reproduce that action on the command line
elsewhere where I don't have that UI.
So the UI can be a great way of
showing you how to do something
if it will show you how it did it.
So that's another important
design goal for everything
that we're doing in the future.
Documentation for command line
tools turns out to be important.
So we're actually now doing
this as part of our builds.
We actually have a verification
phase which goes and says,
"Hey, Mr.
Maintainer, your command line tool,
you installed something in user bin and
it does not have a man page." And it
slaps you upside the head repeatedly
until you do something about it.
So.
So,
something that we're also trying to be
really cognizant of is that the road
is littered with the decaying skeletons
of those Unix folks who have gone
before us and tried to make this work.
It is a hard problem space to
find the right balance for.
If you get too hog wild in
front-ending everything,
the admins scream that
you're dumbing things down,
or that you didn't give them a button
for exactly what they wanted to do,
how dare you.
And if you make it too simplistic,
they won't use it.
They'll say, "What's the point?
I can do this all on the command line.
My fingers are hardwired
for that command.
What good is your UI tool?" And if
you look at a lot of things that
people have done in the industry,
you'll see things on both
sides of the number line.
So this is something that-- one of the
reasons I wanted to cover these points
here is these are all works in progress.
These are all things that
either are under investigation
or are being prototyped,
and this is an area where
administrative feedback,
people who actually at the rock face
doing this stuff day in and day out,
can really, really help us with.
Because again,
we're engineers so we'll go out and build
an elephant where a mouse is called for
or vice versa if you just leave us alone
with the specs and no adult supervision.
But if we have real world scenarios
and definite strong input,
must do this, it must do that,
it must not do this other thing,
that is incredibly important to us.
So I encourage you to send me email,
contact us through channels,
file enhancement reports.
You don't just have to file bug
reports when you go to Bug Reporter.
You can also say, I'd like this.
enhanced, like a new feature place,
so I encourage you to do that.